.\" Manpage for mcp-standards sync
.TH MCP-STANDARDS-SYNC 1 "January 2025" "1.0.0" "MCP Standards Server Manual"

.SH NAME
mcp-standards-sync \- Synchronize standards from repository

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mcp-standards sync
[\fB\-f\fR|\fB\-\-force\fR]
[\fB\-\-check\fR]
[\fB\-\-include\fR \fIPATTERN\fR]
[\fB\-\-exclude\fR \fIPATTERN\fR]
[\fB\-\-parallel\fR \fIN\fR]
[\fB\-\-retry\fR \fIN\fR]
[\fB\-\-timeout\fR \fISECONDS\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sync
command downloads standards files from a configured GitHub repository and caches them locally. It supports incremental updates, force synchronization, and checking for updates without downloading.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-force
Force synchronization of all files, ignoring cache TTL. Downloads all files regardless of whether they are up to date.

.TP
.BR \-\-check
Check for updates without downloading files. Shows which files are outdated.

.TP
.BR \-\-include " " \fIPATTERN\fR
Include only files matching the glob pattern. Can be specified multiple times.

.TP
.BR \-\-exclude " " \fIPATTERN\fR
Exclude files matching the glob pattern. Can be specified multiple times.

.TP
.BR \-\-parallel " " \fIN\fR
Number of parallel downloads. Default: 5. Range: 1-20.

.TP
.BR \-\-retry " " \fIN\fR
Number of retry attempts for failed downloads. Default: 3.

.TP
.BR \-\-timeout " " \fISECONDS\fR
Timeout for each file download in seconds. Default: 30.

.TP
.BR \-q ", " \-\-quiet
Suppress progress output. Only show errors.

.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Show detailed sync progress and debug information.

.SH CONFIGURATION
The sync command reads configuration from:
.nf
repository:
  owner: williamzujkowski
  repo: standards
  branch: main
  path: standards
  auth:
    type: token
    token: ghp_xxxxxxxxxxxx

sync:
  cache_ttl_hours: 24
  parallel_downloads: 5
  retry_attempts: 3
  timeout_seconds: 30
  include_patterns:
    - "*.yaml"
    - "*.md"
  exclude_patterns:
    - "*.draft.*"
.fi

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Basic sync:
.B mcp-standards sync

.TP
Check for updates:
.B mcp-standards sync --check

.TP
Force sync all files:
.B mcp-standards sync --force

.TP
Sync only YAML files:
.B mcp-standards sync --include "*.yaml"

.TP
Exclude draft files:
.B mcp-standards sync --exclude "*.draft.*"

.TP
Increase parallel downloads:
.B mcp-standards sync --parallel 10

.SH CACHING
Files are cached based on the configured TTL (Time To Live). The cache prevents unnecessary downloads and reduces API calls. Cache location: ~/.cache/mcp-standards/

.SH AUTHENTICATION
GitHub API authentication can be configured to increase rate limits:

.TP
Personal Access Token:
.nf
export MCP_STANDARDS_REPOSITORY_AUTH_TOKEN=ghp_xxxxxxxxxxxx
.fi

.TP
GitHub App:
Configure in .mcp-standards.yaml with app_id and private_key_path.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Sync completed successfully

.TP
.B 1
Sync failed or partially failed

.TP
.B 2
Configuration error

.TP
.B 3
Network error

.TP
.B 4
Authentication error

.TP
.B 5
Rate limit exceeded

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B MCP_STANDARDS_REPOSITORY_OWNER
Repository owner (overrides config)

.TP
.B MCP_STANDARDS_REPOSITORY_REPO  
Repository name (overrides config)

.TP
.B MCP_STANDARDS_REPOSITORY_BRANCH
Branch to sync from (overrides config)

.TP
.B MCP_STANDARDS_REPOSITORY_AUTH_TOKEN
GitHub authentication token

.TP
.B HTTPS_PROXY
Proxy server for HTTPS requests

.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.cache/mcp-standards/
Default cache directory

.TP
.I ~/.cache/mcp-standards/metadata.json
Sync metadata and timestamps

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mcp-standards (1),
.BR mcp-standards-cache (1),
.BR mcp-standards-status (1)

.SH BUGS
Report bugs at: https://github.com/williamzujkowski/mcp-standards-server/issues