.\" Manpage for mcp-standards validate
.TH MCP-STANDARDS-VALIDATE 1 "January 2025" "1.0.0" "MCP Standards Server Manual"

.SH NAME
mcp-standards-validate \- Validate code against MCP standards

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mcp-standards validate
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
\fIPATH\fR...

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B validate
command checks code files against applicable standards, providing detailed feedback on compliance issues, suggestions for improvement, and automated fixes where possible.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-\-standards " " \fIFILE\fR
Use specific standards file or query result instead of auto-detection.

.TP
.BR \-\-auto\-detect
Automatically detect applicable standards based on project context (default).

.TP
.BR \-\-fix
Automatically fix issues where possible. Modifies files in place.

.TP
.BR \-\-dry\-run
Show what would be fixed without making actual changes. Implies \-\-fix.

.TP
.BR \-\-format " " \fIFORMAT\fR
Output format. Options: text (default), json, junit, sarif.

.TP
.BR \-\-severity " " \fILEVEL\fR
Minimum severity level to report. Options: error, warning, info.

.TP
.BR \-\-ignore " " \fIPATTERN\fR
Ignore files matching pattern. Can be specified multiple times.

.TP
.BR \-\-config " " \fIFILE\fR
Use custom validation configuration file.

.TP
.BR \-\-parallel " " \fIN\fR
Number of parallel validation workers. Default: CPU count.

.TP
.BR \-\-fail\-on " " \fILEVEL\fR
Exit with error code if issues found at specified level.

.TP
.BR \-\-output " " \fIFILE\fR
Write results to file instead of stdout.

.TP
.BR \-q ", " \-\-quiet
Suppress normal output. Only show errors.

.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Show detailed validation progress.

.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I PATH
One or more paths to validate. Can be files or directories. If no path is specified, validates current directory.

.SH OUTPUT FORMATS
.SS text
Human-readable format with file locations, line numbers, and issue descriptions.

.SS json
Structured JSON output containing all validation results and metadata.

.SS junit
JUnit XML format for CI/CD integration.

.SS sarif
Static Analysis Results Interchange Format for GitHub and other tools.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Validate current directory:
.B mcp-standards validate .

.TP
Validate and auto-fix:
.B mcp-standards validate --fix src/

.TP
Dry run to preview fixes:
.B mcp-standards validate --fix --dry-run file.js

.TP
Validate with specific standards:
.B mcp-standards validate --standards react-standards.yaml src/

.TP
Generate CI report:
.B mcp-standards validate --format junit --output test-results.xml

.TP
Ignore test files:
.B mcp-standards validate --ignore "*.test.js" --ignore "*.spec.js" src/

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Validation passed, no issues found

.TP
.B 1
Validation failed, issues found at fail-on level

.TP
.B 2
Command line error

.TP
.B 3
Configuration error

.TP
.B 4
Standards loading error

.TP
.B 5
File access error

.SH CONFIGURATION
Validation behavior can be configured in
.I .mcp-standards.yaml
file:

.nf
validation:
  severity: warning
  fail_on: error
  ignore:
    - "*.test.*"
    - "dist/**"
  rules:
    max-line-length:
      severity: warning
      options:
        limit: 100
.fi

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B MCP_VALIDATION_PARALLEL
Override number of parallel workers

.TP
.B MCP_VALIDATION_TIMEOUT
Timeout for validation operations in seconds

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mcp-standards (1),
.BR mcp-standards-query (1),
.BR mcp-standards-serve (1)

.SH BUGS
Report bugs at: https://github.com/williamzujkowski/mcp-standards-server/issues