.\" Manpage for mcp-standards
.\" Contact support@mcp-standards.dev to correct errors or typos.
.TH MCP-STANDARDS 1 "January 2025" "1.0.0" "MCP Standards Server Manual"

.SH NAME
mcp-standards \- Model Context Protocol Standards Server command-line interface

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mcp-standards
[\fB\-v\fR|\fB\-\-verbose\fR]
[\fB\-c\fR|\fB\-\-config\fR \fIFILE\fR]
[\fB\-\-no\-color\fR]
[\fB\-\-json\fR]
\fICOMMAND\fR
[\fIARGS\fR]...

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mcp-standards
is a command-line tool for managing, syncing, and validating code against development standards using the Model Context Protocol (MCP). It provides a comprehensive interface for integrating coding standards into development workflows, CI/CD pipelines, and IDE environments.

.SH GLOBAL OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Enable verbose output for debugging. Shows detailed information about operations being performed.

.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-config " " \fIFILE\fR
Specify a custom configuration file. Default locations are searched if not specified.

.TP
.BR \-\-no\-color
Disable colored output. Useful for CI/CD environments or when piping output.

.TP
.BR \-\-json
Output results in JSON format where applicable. Useful for scripting and automation.

.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show help message and exit.

.TP
.BR \-\-version
Show program version and exit.

.SH COMMANDS
.SS sync
Synchronize standards from the configured GitHub repository.

.B mcp-standards sync
[\fB\-f\fR|\fB\-\-force\fR]
[\fB\-\-check\fR]
[\fB\-\-include\fR \fIPATTERN\fR]
[\fB\-\-exclude\fR \fIPATTERN\fR]

.SS status
Show synchronization status and statistics.

.B mcp-standards status
[\fB\-\-json\fR]
[\fB\-\-detailed\fR]
[\fB\-\-check\-health\fR]

.SS cache
Manage the local standards cache.

.B mcp-standards cache
[\fB\-\-list\fR]
[\fB\-\-clear\fR]
[\fB\-\-clear\-outdated\fR]
[\fB\-\-analyze\fR]

.SS config
Show, validate, or manage configuration.

.B mcp-standards config
[\fB\-\-show\fR]
[\fB\-\-validate\fR]
[\fB\-\-init\fR]
[\fB\-\-set\fR \fIKEY\fR \fIVALUE\fR]

.SS query
Query standards based on project context.

.B mcp-standards query
[\fB\-\-project\-type\fR \fITYPE\fR]
[\fB\-\-framework\fR \fINAME\fR]
[\fB\-\-language\fR \fINAME\fR]
[\fB\-\-format\fR \fIFORMAT\fR]

.SS validate
Validate code against standards.

.B mcp-standards validate
[\fB\-\-fix\fR]
[\fB\-\-dry\-run\fR]
[\fB\-\-severity\fR \fILEVEL\fR]
[\fB\-\-fail\-on\fR \fILEVEL\fR]
\fIPATH\fR...

.SS serve
Start the MCP Standards Server.

.B mcp-standards serve
[\fB\-\-host\fR \fIADDRESS\fR]
[\fB\-\-port\fR \fIPORT\fR]
[\fB\-\-stdio\fR]
[\fB\-\-daemon\fR]

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B MCP_STANDARDS_CONFIG
Default configuration file path.

.TP
.B MCP_STANDARDS_DATA_DIR
Data directory location for standards storage.

.TP
.B MCP_STANDARDS_CACHE_DIR
Cache directory location.

.TP
.B MCP_STANDARDS_REPOSITORY_AUTH_TOKEN
GitHub authentication token for API access.

.TP
.B MCP_LOG_LEVEL
Set logging level (DEBUG, INFO, WARNING, ERROR).

.TP
.B NO_COLOR
Disable colored output (same as \-\-no\-color).

.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/mcp-standards/config.yaml
User configuration file.

.TP
.I ./.mcp-standards.yaml
Project-specific configuration file.

.TP
.I ~/.cache/mcp-standards/
Default cache directory for standards files.

.TP
.I /etc/mcp-standards/config.yaml
System-wide configuration file.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Initialize configuration:
.B mcp-standards config --init

.TP
Sync standards:
.B mcp-standards sync

.TP
Validate current directory:
.B mcp-standards validate .

.TP
Query standards for a React project:
.B mcp-standards query --project-type web-application --framework react

.TP
Start server:
.B mcp-standards serve --port 8080

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success

.TP
.B 1
General error

.TP
.B 2
Command line syntax error

.TP
.B 3
Configuration error

.TP
.B 4
Network/sync error

.TP
.B 5
Validation error

.SH BUGS
Report bugs at: https://github.com/williamzujkowski/mcp-standards-server/issues

.SH AUTHOR
Written by the MCP Standards Server contributors.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2025 MCP Standards Server Project.
License: MIT

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mcp-standards-sync (1),
.BR mcp-standards-validate (1),
.BR mcp-standards-serve (1)

Full documentation at: https://mcp-standards.dev/docs